Car Rental Auth Service

This is the authentication service for the Car Rental application. It is responsible for authenticating users and generating JSON Web Tokens (JWT) that can be used for authorization in other services.
Technologies Used

    Spring Boot
    Spring Security
    Keycloak

Installation

To build and run the application, you need to have Java and Maven installed on your system. You also need to have a Keycloak server up and running, which will be used for authentication.

    Clone the repository:

bash

git clone https://github.com/your-username/car-rental-auth-service.git

    Open the project in your IDE and configure the Keycloak settings in the application.yml file. Make sure to update the issuer-uri to match the URL of your Keycloak server and set any other necessary configuration options.

    Build the application:

go

mvn clean package

    Run the application:

bash

java -jar target/car-rental-auth-service.jar

The application should now be running on http://localhost:8080.
Configuration
JwtAuthConverter

The JwtAuthConverter class is responsible for converting a JWT to an AbstractAuthenticationToken that can be used for authentication in Spring Security. It extracts the roles of the user from the JWT and creates a SimpleGrantedAuthority object for each role, which is used for authorization.
JwtAuthConverterProperties

The JwtAuthConverterProperties class is a configuration class for JwtAuthConverter. It allows you to specify the name of the resource and principal attribute in the JWT, which are used by JwtAuthConverter for authorization.
Usage

The car-rental-auth-service is not used directly by end users, but rather by other services in the Car Rental application. When a user logs in, the authentication service generates a JWT that is sent back to the client. This JWT can then be used to authorize access to protected endpoints in other services.

To use the authentication service, other services in the Car Rental application need to configure their Spring Security settings to use the JWT generated by the authentication service for authentication and authorization.
Contributing

If you'd like to contribute to the project, please follow these steps:

    Fork the repository and create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.

    Make your changes and write tests if necessary.

    Submit a pull request and explain the changes you made and why they are necessary.

License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
